---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: single
classes: wide
title: "About DiveRSE"
permalink: /about
---

DiveRSE (Diverse RSE) is a series of talks and related activities including
discussion and panel sessions designed to support and raise awareness of EDI
challenges and successes within the research software community.

### DiveRSE: An Introduction

<h6 style="color: #bbb;">Supporting Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) within the Research Software Engineering community</h6>

The role title "Research Software Engineer" (RSE) was first used only around 10
years ago to describe individuals working in a research environment but
focusing on building software. The Research Software Engineering movement
started in the UK but has since spread around the world with international
associations appearing in a number of countries.

Despite things slowly changing and new international groups starting up in a
number of regions, the initial focus for RSE has been largely based in Europe
and the US. Of course, researchers and others building software to support
research-related processes and tasks exist across the world, even without the
RSE title, and have done so for many decades.

There can be a perception that the software development community lacks
diversity. This may not be entirely unfounded but RSE is a little different. At
present, most RSEs come from a research background. Results from the initial
runs of the international research software survey show us that RSEs don't come
only from areas such as Computer Science where software development is a key
element, but from a much wider range of different research domains. This is an
important aspect in developing a diverse community. At the same time, it is
true that there are still challenges around various aspects of EDI.

As an open, friendly and welcoming community, there is enthusiasm for
discussion about EDI challenges and successes. There have already been various
examples within the community of events and related activties providing
opportunities for discussing and understanding aspects of EDI.

Perhaps the most significant of these so far is the April 2022 workshop "[_Vive
la diff√©rence - research software
engineers_](https://www.researchsoft.org/events/2022-04/)" being hosted at the
[Lorentz Centre](https://www.lorentzcenter.nl/about-us.html) in The
Netherlands.

To link in with this 4-day in-person workshop and a series of associated online
sessions for participants who are unable to attend in person, DiveRSE is being
set up to bring some of the talks and discussions to a wider audience within
the RSE community. We hope that DiveRSE can build on the outputs of the
workshop and provide a series of useful, interesting and valuable talks,
discussions and panel sessions to inform and grow awareness within the RSE
community.

